.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:29:05 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" z88dk version 18/2/2000
.TH byteorder 3  "February 18 2000" "BSD" "z88dk Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
htonl, htons, ntohl, ntohs \- convert values between host and network
byte order
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <net/hton.h>
.sp
.BI "unsigned long int htonl(unsigned long int " hostlong );
.sp
.BI "unsigned short int htons(unsigned short int " hostshort );
.sp
.BI "unsigned long int ntohl(unsigned long int " netlong );
.sp
.BI "unsigned short int ntohs(unsigned short int " netshort );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBhtonl()\fP function converts the long integer \fIhostlong\fP
from host byte order to network byte order.
.PP
The \fBhtons()\fP function converts the short integer \fIhostshort\fP
from host byte order to network byte order.
.PP
The \fBntohl()\fP function converts the long integer \fInetlong\fP
from network byte order to host byte order.
.PP
The \fBntohs()\fP function converts the short integer \fInetshort\fP
from network byte order to host byte order.
.PP
On the z80 the host byte order is Least Significant Byte first, 
whereas the network byte order, as used on the Internet, is Most 
Significant Byte first.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
BSD 4.3
.SH NOTES
Unlike on other machines these functions are not provided through
macros - they are instead functions kept in z80_crt0.lib. The
optimization rules supplied with z88dk are aware of these routines
and when appropriate optimize the function call away.
.SH AUTHOR
Dominic Morris <dom@jb.man.ac.uk>
.PP
Original manual page by David Metcalfe <david@prism.demon.co.uk>
