.TH pktdrive 3z "18 February 2000" ""  "z88dk Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pktdrive \- packet driver descriptor structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <net/device.h>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIpktdrive\fP structure defines access to a device, it is 
only used by the ZSock kernel. Should you wish to write a packet
driver then this structure should be filled with the relevent
routines.
.PP
All external packet drivers run at address 8192 ($2000) and it as
this address that the structure should be placed. Had z88dk the
capability \fIpktdrive\fP would be defined as follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ne 7
.ta 8n 16n
struct pktdrive {
        char    magic[10];
        char    *type;	
        char    *copymsg;
        void	(*initfunc)(void);
        void	(*queuefn)(void *pkt, size_t len);	
	void	*(*packetfn)(void);	
        void	*(*sendfn)(void);
        int	(*readfn)(void);
	void	(*onlinefn)();  
	void	(*offlinefn)(int);
	int	(*statusfn)(void);
};
.ta
.fi
.RE
.PP
The members of the \fIpktdrive\fP structure are:
.TP
.I magic
Magic to identifier the file as a packet driver, this is defined
as ZS0PKTDRV\0
.TP
.I type
A pointer to the type of the device
.TP
.I copymsg
A pointer to the copyright message
.TP
.I initfunc
A function that initialises the device during the initial configurationin
this function.
.TP
.I queuefn
A function that stores outgoing backets in a queue pending sending.
Depending on the speed of the device it may also inject packets into
the interface.
.TP
.I packetfn
A function that returns the address of the incoming packet. This
function is called immediately after initialisation and after
the \fIreadfn\fP function (below) has returned a packet.
.TP
.I sendfn
A function that is called on the interrupt to inject bytes out of
the interface. If this function returns non-zero then packet at
the address returned is freed.
.TP
.I readfn
A function that is called on the interrupt to read incoming bytes.
If the function returns non-zero then a packet is assumed to have
been read, with length as returned by readfn and  lying at the address 
specified by packetfn.
.TP
.I onlinefn
A function that is called when the device is to be turned online
.TP
.I offlinefn
A function that is called when the device is to be turned offline,
if the parameter is non-zero then the function should hang up line
(if appropriate) otherwise it should just suspend sending and
receiving packets.
.TP
.I statusfn
A function that returns the status of the device. It is envisaged
that it will return 0 for offline and 1 for online though it may
return other values. The value returned is left for the user to
understand.

.SH NOTES
When the packet is passed to the driver for output a 4 bytes of header
space is available at dp-4. The SLIP driver by Dominic Morris utilises
these bytes to implement a linked list and to hold the length of
the outgoing packet.
.PP
Other packet drivers might wish to copy the packet to their own
address space for converting into other forms - eg CSLIP form. Alternatively
they might simply create a link from their own space to the packet in
the queue so to reduce time wasted copying bytes.

.SH AUTHOR
Dominic Morris <dom@jb.man.ac.uk>
