.TH tcp_malloc 3  "February 18 2000" "" "z88dk Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
tcp_calloc, tcp_malloc, tcp_free \- Allocate and free memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <net/misc.h>
.sp
.BI "void *tcp_calloc(size_t " "nmemb" ", size_t " "size" ");"
.nl
.BI "void *tcp_malloc(size_t " "size" ");"
.nl
.BI "void tcp_free(void " "*ptr" ");"
.nl
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B calloc()
allocates memory for an array of 
.I nmemb
elements of 
.I size
bytes each and returns a pointer to the allocated memory. 
The memory is set to zero.
.PP
.B malloc()
allocates
.I size
bytes and returns a pointer to the allocated memory. 
The memory is not cleared.
.PP
.B free()
frees the memory space pointed to by
.IR ptr ,
which must have been returned by a previous call to
.BR malloc() 
or
.B calloc()
Otherwise, or if
.BI "free(" "ptr" )
has already been called before, undefined behaviour occurs.
If
.I ptr
is
.BR NULL ,
no operation is performed.
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
For
.BR calloc() " and " malloc() ,
the value returned is a pointer to the allocated memory, which is suitably
aligned for any kind of variable, or
.B NULL
if the request fails.
.PP
.B free()
returns no value.
.PP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tcp_pagein "(3z) ," tcp_pageout (3z)

.SH NOTES
These functions manipulate memory in a private memory page belonging
to ZSock. This 16k page holds all the buffers that ZSock uses
and hence requests for large amounts of memory are likely to fail (and
in any case are not recommended).
.PP
This facility has been offered to allow daemons to be written simply
(they have no address space of their own). User applications should
not use these facilities. If a large (>256 bytes) amount of memory
is required for a user application then the application should
either be of the BAD type or be redesigned.

.SH AUTHOR
Dominic Morris <dom@jb.man.ac.uk>
